## Challenges and Differences of Management in Computer Science

> Software engineering, data analysis, and web development are all massive industries in the modern world. There are many different practical uses for the study of computer science, and many of these positions weren’t nearly as prominent 15 or 20 years ago. These newer kinds of positions have some characteristics that are unique to the field. Especially when looking at the modern environment of programmers there are some obvious differences. The relatively new remote working trend, the fact that many teams are comprised of members that are located around the world, and the vast range of specialties and knowledge required for large projects can make management of a team of programmers extremely difficult. These are just a few of the many challenges that are posed to the industry. With these many unique challenges comes many more unique practices to help solve them. Modifying scrum and agile practices have become the most common strategies, but there are also practices such as Kanban and Waterfall that are used as well.
>	The unique challenges that managing a team of programmers has become a large point of study for businesses and academics alike. According to the US census only about 18% of jobs can be done from home, whereas the tech and information sector has the highest link to work-from-home positions (Bureau). This large emphasis on remote work has brought along many challenges for properly managing a team. It can lead to having teams split across many time zones that may not be online at the same times or there could even be cultural differences which cause tension among team members. This can be even more pronounced given the fact that having an international group is possible for development teams (Niazi). Regardless of the location of the team there are also issues such as planning out projects and splitting up work that aren’t as straightforward in the computer science field.
>	Planning out and splitting up work for a project requires many different management practices that have been developed for the software development and computer science fields. The most popular methodology that is commonly used to help manage software development projects is the Scrum methodology. Scrum is a way to improve a project iteratively and rapidly by doing short “sprints” of work to add features or improvements. Once new features have been added and a sprint is completed then the team goes back and reviews how it went. This mixture of quick iterations and constant review is important to the management of a software project because it helps prioritize communication and complex problem solving with a team. This leads to better outcomes with remote teams and more feedback between developers and management (“What Is Scrum?”). 
>	 Many other industries use similar management methodologies, but an important difference is the emphasis on communication and problem solving that is required to make a programming project run smoothly. Management methodologies in an industry such as marketing focus more on the product and the focus of work rather than open communication lines. This leads to a much different style of management. Making sure that the management matches the industry is extremely important. A study demonstrated this by determining what attributes a successful software development project had. Some of the common attributes of a successful project were holding postmortem reviews, defining scope properly, and having set deliverables. These  attributes are all necessary parts of the Scrum methodology, but they aren’t critical attributes when looking at other industries.
>	The differences and challenges that management of computer science teams is important to keep in mind even as a developer because it helps to illuminate the goals of the team. Software development requires a large amount of communication and problem solving that is supported by the management. Working together and finding a proper management methodology can be the difference between a successful project and a failure.
 
* Bureau, US Census. “The Number of People Primarily Working from Home Tripled between 2019 and 2021.” Census.gov, 16 Sept. 2022, https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2022/people-working-from-home.html#:~:text=15%2C%202022%20%E2%80%93%20Between%202019%20and,by%20the%20U.S.%20Census%20Bureau. 
* J. M. Verner and W. M. Evanco, "In-house software development: what project management practices lead to success?," in IEEE Software, vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 86-93, Jan.-Feb. 2005, doi: 10.1109/MS.2005.12.
* Niazi, Mahmood, et al. “Challenges of Project Management in Global Software Development: A Client-Vendor Analysis.” Information and Software Technology, Elsevier, 5 Aug. 2016, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0950584916301227. 
* “What Is Scrum?” Scrum.org, https://www.scrum.org/resources/what-is-scrum. 
